The foundation of every state is the education of its youth. 
In a rich man's house there is no place to spit but his face. 
It is the privilege of the gods to want nothing, and of godlike men to want little. 
He has the most who is most content with the least. 
What I like to drink most is wine that belongs to others. 
We have two ears and one tongue so that we would listen more and talk less. 
The mob is the mother of tyrants. 
Stand a little less between me and the sun. 
Dogs and philosophers do the greatest good and get the fewest rewards. 
The sun, too, shines into cesspools and is not polluted. 
As a matter of self-preservation, a man needs good friends or ardent enemies, for the former instruct him and the latter take him to task. 
Of what use is a philosopher who doesn't hurt anybody's feelings? 
I have nothing to ask but that you would remove to the other side, that you may not, by intercepting the sunshine, take from me what you cannot give. 
I am called a dog because I fawn on those who give me anything, I yelp at those who refuse, and I set my teeth in rascals. 
There is only a finger's difference between a wise man and a fool. 
Man is the most intelligent of the animals - and the most silly. 
I threw my cup away when I saw a child drinking from his hands at the trough. 
I know nothing, except the fact of my ignorance. 
I am not an Athenian or a Greek, but a citizen of the world. 
Modesty is the color of virtue. 
Those who have virtue always in their mouths, and neglect it in practice, are like a harp, which emits a sound pleasing to others, while itself is insensible of the music. 
Why not whip the teacher when the pupil misbehaves? 
When I look upon seamen, men of science and philosophers, man is the wisest of all beings; when I look upon priests and prophets nothing is as contemptible as man. 
The art of being a slave is to rule one's master. 
I do not know whether there are gods, but there ought to be. 
A friend is one soul abiding in two bodies. 
Calumny is only the noise of madmen. 
The great thieves lead away the little thief. 
No man is hurt but by himself. 
Wise kings generally have wise counselors; and he must be a wise man himself who is capable of distinguishing one. 
Most men are within a finger's breadth of being mad. 
It takes a wise man to discover a wise man. 
It was a favorite expression of Theophrastus that time was the most valuable thing that a man could spend. 
Blushing is the color of virtue. 
The vine bears three kinds of grapes: the first of pleasure, the second of intoxication, the third of disgust. 
The sun too penetrates into privies, but is not polluted by them. 
Wise leaders generally have wise counselors because it takes a wise person themselves to distinguish them. 
