No man ever steps in the same river twice, for it's not the same river and he's not the same man. 
There is nothing permanent except change. 
Our envy always lasts longer than the happiness of those we envy. 
A man's character is his fate. 
Good character is not formed in a week or a month. It is created little by little, day by day. Protracted and patient effort is needed to develop good character. 
The sun is new each day. 
Big results require big ambitions. 
If you do not expect the unexpected you will not find it, for it is not to be reached by search or trail. 
Nothing endures but change. 
The eyes are more exact witnesses than the ears. 
Much learning does not teach understanding. 
Man is most nearly himself when he achieves the seriousness of a child at play. 
A man's character is his guardian divinity. 
You cannot step into the same river twice. 
The hidden harmony is better than the obvious. 
Character is destiny. 
The way up and the way down are one and the same. 
Opposition brings concord. Out of discord comes the fairest harmony. 
Eyes and ears are poor witnesses to people if they have uncultured souls. 
Change alone is unchanging. 
Hide our ignorance as we will, an evening of wine soon reveals it. 
It is hard to contend against one's heart's desire; for whatever it wishes to have it buys at the cost of soul. 
The chain of wedlock is so heavy that it takes two to carry it - and sometimes three. 
To do the same thing over and over again is not only boredom: it is to be controlled by rather than to control what you do. 
Men who wish to know about the world must learn about it in its particular details. 
You could not step twice into the same rivers; for other waters are ever flowing on to you. 
Even sleepers are workers and collaborators in what goes on in the Universe. 
To God everything is beautiful, good, and just; humans, however, think some things are unjust and others just. 
No one that encounters prosperity does not also encounter danger. 
Justice will overtake fabricators of lies and false witnesses. 
Couples are wholes and not wholes, what agrees disagrees, the concordant is discordant. From all things one and from one all things. 
God is day and night, winter and summer, war and peace, surfeit and hunger. 
Bigotry is the sacred disease. 
Corpses are more fit to be thrown out than is dung. 
Nature is wont to hide herself. 
Deliberate violence is more to be quenched than a fire. 
The best people renounce all for one goal, the eternal fame of mortals; but most people stuff themselves like cattle. 
I am what libraries and librarians have made me, with little assistance from a professor of Greek and poets. 
